---
title: The Dual-Faced Agendas
description: An analysis on Trump's economic and immigration policy and how it's more than meets the eye. From Trump's threat to Greenland to the execution of Renée Good and Alex Pretti.
pubDate: Jan 29 2026
heroImage: "@images/pretti-and-good.png"
tags:
  - current-events
  - politics
---
The Trump administration continuously emphasizes how important immigration and economic policy is. When Trump took office for his 2nd term, it quickly became apparent that it wasn't just about cracking down on illegal immigration or bettering the U.S. economy—it was about leverage. 

Trump's policy has two major points in its economic policy: government cost-cutting and tariffs. The broad idea of tariffs is to promote domestic industries; however, Trump, instead, frequently uses the practice to leverage foreign policy. In a most recent example, Trump [threatened](https://truthsocial.com/@realDonaldTrump/posts/115911344443637897) to impose tariffs up to 25% on several European countries, and even threatened military action. Why, and what did these countries do? Trump has stated that the U.S. needs Greenland on the basis of national security, as Greenland's location is considered strategically favorable. However, these European countries have rejected Trump's idea of owning Greenland, a sovereign state of Denmark. Several days later, after a meeting with the Secretary General of NATO, Mark Rutte, Trump [announced](https://truthsocial.com/@realDonaldTrump/posts/115934734335579278) that these tariffs would no longer be put in place after establishing a framework for a "future deal." Although Trump claims that no tariffs will be put in place, his threat still served the purpose of leverage and caused worry across the European Union.

It's clear the Trump administration has no problem with using tariffs as a bargaining chip. However, the Trump administration also has nothing against using the lives of people as bargaining chips—on what Trump would call his "immigration policy," as in December of 2025, the Trump administration would deploy the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to the state of Minnesota. This has recently culminated in two cases of inexcusable public execution against lawful, protesting citizens.

The more recent case involves 37-year-old Alex Pretti, an intensive-care nurse for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. Pretti, an American citizen, was lawfully protesting against U.S. immigration forces. Pretti carried a handgun with him whilst protesting, as he was legally licensed to carry said firearm, and it was within his given rights to do so. However, despite what the U.S. Customs and Border Protection [would claim](https://x.com/atrupar/status/2015141119395233835), at no point did Pretti attempt to use the firearm in any way. [Recorded by several bystanders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wBi_c_unAdI), Alex Pretti would be brutally executed by Border Patrol, as he was attempting to help a woman who had been pushed by a Border Patrol agent. Pretti would then be pepper-sprayed by an agent and wrestled to the ground by several others. While pinned against the ground, an agent would strike Pretti several times with an unknown object, and seconds later, another agent would [discover and run away](https://www.nbcnews.com/video/shorts/new-angle-shows-federal-agent-fatally-shooting-man-256532549607) with Pretti's firearm as another agent would shoot Pretti in the back ten times, killing him.

Prior to the execution of Alex Pretti, there was the execution of 37-year-old Renée Good. Good was an American citizen who lived in Minnesota, and she was both a writer and a poet. On the day of her execution, Good had been spectating ICE agents deployed around her area. Unfortunately, her simple act of spectating would culminate with ICE agent Jonathan Ross brutally executing and mocking her, all while being [recorded on Ross' own phone](https://www.cnn.com/2026/01/09/us/ice-agent-cellphone-video-minneapolis).
As Good was seated in her SUV, she was approached by Ross, who was wearing a mask. Good's partner, Becca, was behind Good's SUV. Becca would yell at Ross, demanding he remove his mask. Ross and two other ICE agents, who had exited a now-parked vehicle, would then approach Good's SUV and demand she exit her SUV. Good would instead drive several feet in reverse and then begin to drive forward. As Good inched forward, Ross would draw his firearm and rapidly fire three shots, all of which would strike Good. As corroborated by a video/audio analysis by the [_New York Times_](https://www.nytimes.com/2026/01/16/us/ice-agent-minneapolis-jonathan-ross.html), as Good's SUV barreled down the street, Ross would remark "fucking bitch[,]" towards Good. Furthermore, ICE agents would attempt to block bystanders from attempting to perform medical treatment. Good would later be pronounced dead at the hospital.

This would spark outrage and protests across the country. People are demanding accountability for the actions of Border Patrol and ICE. However, the Trump administration doesn't see it this way and would instead use this outrage as leverage. In a [letter](https://static.fox9.com/www.fox9.com/content/uploads/2026/01/mn_letter_1.24.26.pdf) by Attorney General Pam Bondi, the Attorney General would use these tragedies to demand access to state records that are considered interesting and beneficial to the Trump administration--information on the Medicaid and Food and Nutrition Service program, and Minnesota's voter records. Additionally, the Attorney General would demand Minnesota's Governor Tim Walz to 
"[...]repeal the sanctuary policies that have led to so much crime and violence in your state[,]" accusing the state of failing to uphold the rule of law.  